Once upon a time there lived a king and he had N sons. And there were N beautiful girls in the kingdom and the king knew about each of his sons which of those girls he did like. The sons of the king were young and light-headed, so it was possible for one son to like several girls. 

So the king asked his wizard to find for each of his sons the girl he liked, so that he could marry her. And the king's wizard did it -- for each son the girl that he could marry was chosen, so that he liked this girl and, of course, each beautiful girl had to marry only one of the king's sons. 

However, the king looked at the list and said: "I like the list you have made, but I am not completely satisfied. For each son I would like to know all the girls that he can marry. Of course, after he marries any of those girls, for each other son you must still be able to choose the girl he likes to marry." 

The problem the king wanted the wizard to solve had become too hard for him. You must save wizard's head by solving this problem. 
## input
The first line of the input contains N -- the number of king's sons (1 <= N <= 2000). Next N lines for each of king's sons contain the list of the girls he likes: first Ki -- the number of those girls, and then Ki different integer numbers, ranging from 1 to N denoting the girls. The sum of all Ki does not exceed 200000. 

The last line of the case contains the original list the wizard had made -- N different integer numbers: for each son the number of the girl he would marry in compliance with this list. It is guaranteed that the list is correct, that is, each son likes the girl he must marry according to this list. 
## output
Output N lines.For each king's son first print Li -- the number of different girls he likes and can marry so that after his marriage it is possible to marry each of the other king's sons. After that print Li different integer numbers denoting those girls, in ascending order. 

## 题目分析
对于每个王子与其心仪的女孩构建一条有向边，则本题的图是一个二分图

题目要求找出所有最大匹配，匈牙利算法是不能跑的，于是我们考虑求强连通分量。

对于媒婆给出的结婚列表，构建反向边，王子与其心仪的女孩存在婚姻可能当且仅当他们在同一强连通分量当中。

用$Tarjan$求之即可:
```cpp
#include <cstdio>
#include <algorithm> 
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;
const int N = 6000001;
int n, k, v, tot, top, scc, cnt, dfs_clk, head[N], dfn[N], low[N], stack[N], dye[N], que[N];
bool instack[N];
struct Graph { 
	int to, next;
}edge[N];

void add_edge(int x, int y) {
	edge[++tot].to = y;
	edge[tot].next = head[x];
	head[x] = tot;
}
void Tarjan(int x) {
	dfn[x] = low[x] = ++dfs_clk;
	instack[stack[++top] = x] = 1;
	for(int i = head[x]; i; i = edge[i].next) {
		int y = edge[i].to;
		if(!dfn[y]) {
			Tarjan(y);
			low[x] = min(low[x], low[y]);
		}
		else if(instack[y]) low[x] = min(low[x], dfn[y]);
	}
	if(dfn[x] == low[x]) {
		int t;
		scc++;
		do {
			t = stack[top--];
			instack[t] = 0;
			dye[t] = scc;
		}while(t != x); 
	}
}
int main()
{
	scanf("%d", &n);
	for(int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
		scanf("%d", &k);
		for(int j = 1; j <= k; j++) {
			scanf("%d", &v);
			add_edge(i, v + n);
		}
	}
	for(int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
		scanf("%d", &v);
		add_edge(v + n, i);
	}
	for(int i = 1; i <= 2 * n; i++)
		if(!dfn[i]) Tarjan(i);
	for(int x = 1; x <= n; x++) {
		cnt = 0;
		for(int i = head[x]; i; i = edge[i].next) {
			int y = edge[i].to;
			if(dye[x] == dye[y])
				que[++cnt] = y - n;
		}
		sort(que + 1, que + cnt + 1);
		printf("%d ", cnt);
		for(int i = 1; i <= cnt; i++)
			printf("%d ", que[i]);
		printf("\n");
	}
	return 0;
}
```
